HISTORY OF INTERNET

JCR Licklider was first to propose a global network og computers in 1962. MIT, UCLA were on the front to develop the theory of packet switching.
Lawrence Roberts moved over to DARPA in 1966 and developed his plan for ARPANET which lefft more unnamed founders of the internet.
ARPANET was online in 1969 by ARPA (advanced research projects agency). 

Internt was designed to provide communications network that would work even id some major sites were down. most direct route was not available, 
routers direct traffic around the network via alternate routes.

telnet protocol - enabling logging on to a remote computer, was publishedd in 1972. FTP (file transfer protocol) protocol .

INTERNET was matured in 70s as TCP/IP architechture first proposed by Bob Kahn at BBN. DoD adopted it later.
Unix to Unix Copy Protocol (UUCP) was invented in 1978 in Bell Labs and connected the unnix systems around the world. BITNET connected all IBM mainframes
around the world to access the email and other services provided by IBM. 

as no of sites were increasing day by day , tracking was becoming more harder. McGill Uni students creater for ftp files and named as 'Archie' and track them respectively. 
after archie, Wide Area Information Server (WAIS), which would index the full text of files in a database and allow searches of the files as they were indexed.

first friendly interface to the internet was developed at the Uni of Minnesota. they devveloped a simple menu system. it was named 'GOPHER', it was simple as we clicked on it.

at lasst,in 1989,  Tim Berners Lee and others at CERN (european particle physics research facility) proposed a new protocol for information distribution. this was the WWW (world wide web)

Wireless has grown rapidly in the past few years, and travellers search for the wi-fi "hot spots" where they can connect while they are away from the home or office. 
Many airports, coffee bars, hotels and motels now routinely provide these services, some for a fee and some for free.

A next big growth area is the surge towards universal wireless access, where almost everywhere is a "hot spot". Municipal wi-fi or city-wide access, 
wiMAX offering broader ranges than wi-fi, EV-DO, 4g, LTE, and other formats will joust for dominance in the USA in the years ahead. The battle is both economic and political

Another trend that is rapidly affecting web designers is the growth of smaller devices to connect to the Internet. Small tablets, pocket PCs, smart phones, ebooks, game machines, 
and even GPS devices are now capable of tapping into the web on the go, and many web pages are not designed to work on that scale.

