HOW INTERNET WORKS?

The Internet is a network of networks—millions of them, actually. If the network at your university, your employer, or in your home has Internet access, 
it connects to an Internet service provider (ISP).

The Internet has no center and no one owns it. That’s a good thing. The Internet was designed to be redundant and fault-tolerant—meaning that if one network, 
connecting wire, or server stops working, everything else should keep on running.

first, rising from military research and work at educational inst. the evolution and the operating infrastructure was transitioned more by private firms 
rather than the government grants.

let's see how it works?
you need to answer these three questions--
What are you looking for? Where is it? And how do we get there?

check this domain system img - https://storage.googleapis.com/swayam-node2-production.appspot.com/assets/img/nou20_cs01/Anatomy%20of%20a%20Web%20Address.png

URL - 'http://www.nytimes.com/tech/index.html'
(1) http - it is the protocol, set of rules for communication, it is the source independent (doesnt matter if  it comes from a mac or pc) 

The Internet supports lots of different applications, and many of these applications use their own application transfer protocol to communicate with each other.

The server that holds your e-mail uses something called SMTP, or simple mail transfer protocol, to exchange mail with other e-mail servers throughout the world.
similarly there are FTP (file transferr protocol), this is how our web devs upload the webpages, graphics and other files for the Websites.

ex. you're doing  a banking transaction, the http changes to https, the 's' is for secure. 

That means that communications between your browser and server will be encrypted for safe transmission.
Host and domain names are not case sensitive, so you can use a combination of upper and lower case letters and you’ll still get to your destination.

You don’t always type a path or file name as part of a Web address, but there’s always a file lurking behind the scenes.
for ex. when you visit 'google.com', the Google always pulls up a page called 'index.html', a file that contains the web page that displays Google logo, 
the text entry field , the 'Google Search' button, and so on. You might not see but its there..
