---INTRODUCTION TO CYBER CRIMES---

Initially the computer crime was only confined to making a physical damage to the computer and related infrastructure.
Around 1980’s the trend changed from causing the physical damaging to computers to making a computer malfunction using a malicious code called virus.

The term cyber crime is used to describe a unlawful activity in which computer or computing devices such as smartphones, tablets, Personal Digital Assistants(PDAs),  etc. 
which are stand alone or a part of a network are used as a tool or/and target of criminal activity. It is often committed by the people of destructive and criminal mindset either for revenge, greed or adventure.

CLASSIFICATION OF CYBER CRIMES
The cyber criminal could be internal or external to the organization facing the cyber attack. Based on this fact, the cyber crime could be categorized into two types:

[1] INSIDER ATTACK- An attack to the network or the computer system by some person with authorized system access is known as insider attack. It is generally performed by dissatisfied or unhappy inside employees or contractors.
                    The motive of the insider attack could be revenge or greed. This is comaparatively an easy attack.
                    The insider attack could be prevented by planning and installing an Internal intrusion detection systems (IDS) in the organization.
                    
[2] EXTERNAL ATTACK- When the attacker is either hired by an insider or an external entity to the organization, it is known as external attack. The organization which is a victim of  cyber attack not only faces financial 
                     loss but also the loss of reputation.
                     An experienced network/security administrator keeps regular eye on the log generated by the firewalls as external attacks can be traced out by carefully analyzing these firewall logs. 
                     Also, Intrusion Detection Systems are installed to keep an eye on external attacks.
                     
They can also be classified into UNSTRUCTURED and STRUCTURED attacks..

Cyber crimes have turned out to be a low-investment, low-risk business with  huge returns. Now-a-days these structured crimes are performed are highly organized.

Follow this Hierarchical Structure- https://storage.googleapis.com/swayam-node2-production.appspot.com/assets/img/nou19_cs08/hier.png

